there's an old quote from Marcus
Aurelius I may be misusing the quote I
may be overusing the quote but I'm using
it um Marcus Aurelius says that when
we're engaged in debates about
philosophy we are not competing for a
prize of an ordinary kind we're
competing for whether we are to be sane
or insane and I do think it's meaningful
to engage in debates of a political
philosophy within veganism in part
because we're really questioning whether
or not our beliefs whether or not the
systems of thought were espousing
whether or not the lines of reasoning
we're presenting people with make us
appear to be insane or insane in terms
how others perceive us and also frankly
whether or not we're presenting a system
of values within which we might drive
ourselves insane are we advancing
arguments that are so incoherent so self
contradictory that we might if we're
really being honest be driving ourselves
crazy with them and both in private and
in public those are questions a lot of
vegans ask themselves especially if they
dig in deeply to any one particular
issue I'm missing is you've got to
remember that black people are women
used to be oppressed like we oppress
animals today they used to be viewed as
less than and that's exactly how we view
animals we view them as less than humans
like we used to be black people as less
than white people or women less than men
it's the same idea and it's very very
convenient to be the oppressor and to
judge those who are speaking on behalf
of the victims because you're the
oppressor and you like the position
you're in you're in a position of
privilege in a position of power so when
people try and take that away for you by
saying hang on maybe not as impossible
as you thought you were I think the most
fundamental part of earthling is
approach is what he says second not
first year where he suggests that the
objectives of veganism or to eliminate
any barrier of more than versus less
than in the relations of human versus
animals and I actually object to that I
I don't accept his assumptions here I
don't accept the logic of his argument I
don't think this is a meaningful way to
present veganism to outsiders I don't
think it's a meeting point of practice
we
you know life if you really say that you
want to eliminate the distinction of
better than and less than that separates
humans from animals what does that mean
for the cockroaches in your life what
does that mean for the bedbugs that may
invest your apartment
what does that mean for bees and
mosquitoes guys what does it mean for
chickens whether you're talking about
chickens that are on a farm or chickens
that are in a sanctuary or chickens that
are actually living in the wilderness in
the wild what I want for chickens cows
and pigs whether they're currently in
cages currently in sanctuaries or
actually living in the wild type of pigs
as wild boars if it's actually living
that quality of life living a life with
dignity and a death of dignity out in
the wilderness not as human pets not as
human playthings but its independent
from human beings I can describe that in
terms of their independence from people
and I can also describe it in terms of
the dependence upon us because whether
animals on a farm in a sanctuary or in
the wilderness the reality is they rely
on human beings whether it's human
beings that are literally feeding them
you know on a sanctuary feeding them
providing them with veterinary care and
so on or if it's just the human beings
who organize and manage the wildlife
preservation area the National Park
whatever it might be where these animals
are living it's fundamentally observed
and incoherent for earthling ed to
describe the objectives of the vegan
movement in terms of eliminating any
barrier of less than that's his his word
that's not my objective in the vegan
book my objectives are attainable my
objectives are neither equal rights for
animals nor equal-opportunity freezing
this in terms of privilege and power
eliminating unequal privilege and power
are you really claiming that there's
going to come a day in the future when
human beings do not have privilege
/ cockroaches when human beings do not
have privilege and power over bears in
the wild or pigs in any of those three
phases pigs on a farm things in a
sanctuary pigs in the wilderness you
really think you can eliminate the
distinction of privilege and power
between a human being and a wild boar or
heir or human being and a pig that you
may have rescued from a farm but is now
dependent on human care in a sanctuary
to live out its last days because some
vegans manage to take it away from us or
us which happens really you think the
objective of what we're doing here this
whole movement or the particular people
running that sanctuary or the people who
are working and managing and operating a
National Park Conservation Area you
think any of them are working towards
eliminating the human privilege human
privilege no no this is about human
beings making better use of the
privilege and power that they have and a
privilege and power that we are always
going to have an absolute inequality and
yes an absolute responsibility the human
beings have towards animals and that I
think human beings have towards
ecosystems towards the wilderness as a
concept so that's something we do in
effect have to preserve and have to
manage but ineluctably we're going to be
managing those things for our own
benefit even if we are also doing them
in order to you know keep biodiversity
alive so that animals can enjoy their
own lives to some extent independently
in the wild ultimately their human
values that we're imposing on animals
it's not a question of the animals
having inalienable equal rights that we
have to just let them exercise if you
let a pig out of the slaughterhouse what
are the rights that Pig can exercise on
its own the answer is none the pig goes
from one situation of total dependency
on human beings to another situation of
total dependence in human beings the
question is whether the human beings are
using their power and privilege to
exploit and kill them
pay before a profit or for some other
better goal whether it's a wild boar in
the forest or a pig being helped on a
sanctuary research Bobby with your
interesting taking a flyer it's about
your jacket because you may not be aware
that uses dog fur on the trim the trim
comes from a coyote which comes from
species of dog and what happens they get
caught in the leghole traps and
sometimes they're in there for about
seven to two hours for the hunter comes
to get them but a lot of these coyotes
and mothers so what happens is their
cubs are left alone at home and they
even get killed by predators or they
starve to death okay
are you aware that the therm of your
post real doctor did you ask that
permission - coyote if you can kill it
I'll tell you what I wanted a lot more
you point why why you know why
are you here
I miss ask any question because I don't
come up hit me and tell me about what I
would Canberra on what about the animals
why do you color worry my kin were
nomadic on none of your what about the
animal though is it basically animal are
we advancing arguments that are so
incoherent that we might if we're really
being honest be driving ourselves crazy
with them look at for example the
abolitionist arguments against single
issue causes so in this video I'm
debating with a guy named earthling IDI
and he's aware of the critique of his
position come from the abolitionists the
abolitionists claim that it's really
Amuro
to address fur in particular try to
encourage people to stop wearing fur
coats and they have this very complex
into my mind somewhat incoherent and a
rational argument as to why addressing
any single issue cause such as fur
actually it's very negative for veganism
as a movement in a whole and I've
actually I've seen ads response to that
and I think Ed's response is quite
meaningful and even well-intentioned he
does address that quite well among other
things
Edge's says that actually protesting
against fur it's related to veganism but
it's not the same as veganism and you
have to evaluate in a separate way I
think it's a very intelligent set of
reasons he sets out for why he
personally engages in protests against
fur while also being a part of the vegan
movement but that position the
abolitionist position that opposes all
single-issue causes
I've made videos really raising the
question look if we really believe this
if we really espouse this and we really
live by it is this singing or insane why
would it be vegan to oppose saving a
particular species of dolphins in a
particular River as a single issue cause
the abolitionist if they really believe
what they're preaching they would have
to say no no no you're assuming that
dolphins are cute and therefore they
ought to have more rights or more
attention of human beings this is a form
of implicit speciesism and you're only
affirming oppression blah blah blah the
abolitionist the same way they oppose
anti-fur protests would oppose a
positive ecological charity organization
trying to save a particular species of
dolphin in a particular River trying to
save them from extinction because
they're opposed to all single issue
causes and that is to my mind crazy and
broadly speaking this is one of the
reasons why I engage in critique of this
kind meaningful discussion of political
philosophy within veganism for one thing
in general steel sharpens steel we all
become sharper by engaging in these
kinds of examinations of what we believe
why we believe it etc and also I think
there really is this meaningful question
of have we let incoherent and
contradictory assumptions creep into our
line of thinking that might in fact
bring us closer to insanity than sanity
even though we are all supporting and
pursuing this good cause that everyone
watching this video probably agrees is a
good cause veganism as an end goal the
vegan society of vegan world how we're
going to think of it or just a handful
of individuals becoming vegan one at a
time and supporting positive political
and social change and yet it's so easy
it's so easy it's so easy for a popular
term like social justice to creep its
way into the discourse and actually
really distort how we think about
veganism how we present the ism how we
pursue and propounding ism so earthling
it has a video in which he addresses
the misconception that vegans are
forcing their beliefs on others whether
or not it's a misconception is
defeatable hey guys I decide to do a
quick video today discussing the idea of
forcing beliefs as vegans were always
told of pushing our beliefs onto others
and I not really show this to criticism
at all and I think a good place to start
with this is to view social justice
movements in the past if we look at the
black rights movement they force their
beliefs of equality onto racist and if
we look at the suffragettes movement on
the feminist movement they force their
views of gender equality or misogynist
so to claim that it's negative to force
your beliefs onto others it's incredibly
misguided because if social justice
movements did not do this if they didn't
make their needs heard or their beliefs
heard then they would never achieve
their goals it's by enforcing your views
and others that real social change can
be enacted because if you didn't do so
then nothing would ever change right off
the bat
earthling IDI is assuming that veganism
is a social justice movement I have a
video that is simply titled veganism is
not a social justice movement so that is
not an assumption I share with them I
would challenge that assumption I have
challenged in the past but on the basis
of this assumption IDI then answers the
objection that vegans force their police
and others by claiming that vegans only
do so in the same sense in which any and
every social justice movement must do so
and he gives what he thinks are
flattering examples of the struggle for
black rights ie equal rights for black
people really meaning African Americans
United States and he's diagnosed South
Africa maybe is but this sounds like
he's alluding to the history the United
States of America and equal rights for
women women's equality now already we
have actually a very fundamental problem
here which is the failure to recognize
the meaning of the term social justice
social justice means distributive
justice and actually the history of the
struggle for black right united states
did not aim at distributive justice or
researchers it did not name at social
justice and also did not achieve social
justice this video will be even longer
than it already is if I dealt more
deeply with the definition of social
justice it is true that
social justice is more specific than
distributive justice or redistribute
justice most people complain that the
term is still not specific enough
however if you had a social movement
that was for example aimed at taking
away a land from men and giving it to
women redistributing land ownership that
might be described as a social justice
movement for women as trying to achieve
social justice women ought to own as
much land as men it should be very
obvious to you that equal opportunity
for women the equal right to vote for
women or equal access to education for
men those things are not social justice
issues by the strict definition of the
term black rights United States America
try to achieve equal opportunity and of
all the paradigms to compare to veganism
equal opportunity is especially
difficult to relate to the conditions
and animals especially I love factory
farming so the main thing we're talking
about here it's also completely
meaningless to try to apply the concept
of equal opportunity to animals living
in the wild in a national park in the
habitat conservation area what does
equal opportunity mean to a bear in the
forest or to a cow living in a concrete
shed it means nothing it's completely
meaningless and there are some people
including a Friedrich von Hayek who
would claim that social justice itself
is a meaningless concept interesting
debate to have I don't think it's
meaningless
I think we have to recognize its
particular and specific meaning and in
the same sense that equal opportunity
it's just a concept that doesn't apply
to animals in these cases in the same
way we have to recognize that social
justice doesn't apply to animals these
ways the people who support domesticated
pets and who care a lot about legal
rights for dogs and cats that's the
movement within veganism we don't talk
about that much of this channel it's
called the citizenship approach so for
example those people want to see laws
passed so that if a poor family owns a
dog
cat and they can't afford surgery then
the government will in effect provide
health care for this dog or pet so that
they don't have to just kill the animal
don't to put it down they feel it's
against the rights of the animals just
be killed for the convenience of the
family that owns the past or to be
killed because of the poverty of the
family that of the pen so it's a very
straightforward concept but nevertheless
we can't actually describe this in terms
of equal opportunity or social justice
it's not social justice for a dog or a
cat that has had its testicles chopped
off may have had its tablet sorry its
claws pulled out of its palms may that
it's teeth removed may have at all these
surgical modifications made to its body
so that it just lives like a toy for
human entertainment there's no there's
no sense of social justice and then
providing that animal with yet more
surgeries to extend the animal's life
extend its status of perpetual
dependency living on this family's
carpet that's not equality it's not
equal opportunity that's not social
justice and it may nevertheless be a
question worth asking if poor people
owned dogs and cats and then those dogs
and cats need expensive surgeries
legally what is the responsibility to
taxpayer you tell me so it is not so
easy to invoke the name of black rights
civil rights for African Americans and
to say well they force their beliefs on
others is exactly what Earthling Act
claims here therefore it's okay for
vegans to divorce the book cinemas it's
actually tremendously meaningful to
recognize that the time of the United
States of America in the United States
the government did not force these
beliefs onyx it remain your civil right
in the United States to believe whatever
you want to believe those movements did
not seek to create uniformity of belief
in America and they did not even seek to
deprive for example a Christian preacher
of the freedom to save racist things
which they continued saying there are
still to this day white churches in
America that preach against black people
and there are although more
rarely you can see examples of racist
black churches that preach against white
people in America and preach that white
people devil they very much have freedom
of expression to voice those opinions
freedom of belief and even the freedom
to organize those racist views into
formal churches and political parties so
again earthling ed is British you may
not understand best you may not
appreciate the significance of this but
the civil rights movement black rights
equal rights for African Americans never
aimed at forcing their beliefs in others
and the United States because the
constitutional tradition it actually
very much preserved the freedom of
belief for people still to this day in
the United States it is legal to have a
whites-only church or a blacks only
Church and you can see that all over
America and the things that the
preachers are preaching inside those
churches whether they're Christian or
some other religion or they're a new-age
cult or what-have-you may indeed be
racist they have freedom of opinion
which includes freedom of racism and
freedom of belief okay
so black rights did not try to change
people's beliefs they try to change
government policy what are those policy
changes aimed at they're aimed at equal
opportunity so what really mattered for
civil rights in United States for
example yes there's an obvious question
can black people actually vote and there
were a number of hurdles and obstacles
and changes had to be made because in
many parts the United States in theory
black people had the right to vote vote
but in practice they couldn't really
make it happen there have been unfair
obstacles created they're exercising
that right but much trickier where
things are looking at did black people
and white people actually have an equal
ability to get a bank loan in order to
buy a house or to build a new house how
do you legislate racism out of the
banking system so that people truly have
equal opportunity how do you legislate
racism of the hiring process at large
institutions so that black people white
people truly have equal opportunity how
do you amend and revise an education
system which in the United States had
been built on segregation has been built
on elitism including openly a racist
elitism how do you change that education
system so that black people and white
people have equal opportunity the
results were imperfect but they were
dramatically better in the 1990s than
they were in the 1940s tremendous change
not aimed at forcing beliefs not about
belief it was about equal opportunity
and if you're really honest with
yourself and you really care about being
consistent just think open to the
meaning of these words and what they
would mean your own life if you believed
in them in practice them consistently I
think you have to admit to yourself that
equal opportunity is completely
meaningless in reference to a pig that's
awaiting slaughter and a slaughterhouse
if we rescue that Pig we can't grant an
equal opportunity we can't grab granted
equal rights the best thing we can
probably do for that pig right now in
2017 is either put it in a sanctuary or
try to rehabilitate it to some extent
and introduce it back into the wild if
that pig can to some extent it enjoy its
life as a wild boar would if it can be
rehabilitated trained have some kind of
positive life but no matter which way
you look at it a pig that's eaten old
its food out of a human hand is not in a
position to exercise equal rights
this is meaningless it's meaningless
whether we're talking about the
wilderness or talking about a farm or
we're talking about pets living their
whole lives in the ground there are
plenty of positive things about
earthling ed his approach to activism
and its YouTube channel and above all
else he does have the redeeming quality
of keeping it real because he's honest
with his audience he's honest about the
shortcomings of his approach to activism
he's honest to vote when it goes wrong
when it just doesn't accomplish much
when he has these conversations that
strangers don't really go anywhere I
think we all can kind of learn from his
experience and learn from his mistakes
as they unfold on screen he has been
doing this for about a year and a half
his current approach to veganism and I
think he probably will adapt and take
on new methods new angles in the years
ahead
so for all that I kind of congratulate
them and I appreciate them and I wish
you the best and I think whether viewers
are just looking at as entertainment or
really looking at and questioning in
their own lives what they can do what is
effective active doesn't mean to them a
lot more good comes out of it than harm
that hadn't been said I really do find
that watching his videos is yet another
reminder how some of these simple
assumptions can lead to false and
counterproductive and even insane
beliefs within veganism it may seem so
simple and so appealing to argue that
the objective of veganism is a crusade
against privilege but it's not it does
not make sense to present or pursue
veganism as the abolition of human
privilege that is simply insane human
beings are now privileged when contrast
to a bear in the wild I want us to use
that privilege to have practices of
wildlife habitat management conservation
that respect the Bears their dignity in
life and their dignity in death and
prevent them from going extinct that
manage their numbers when they get too
low and it gets you high over population
under population if there's a plague
that breaks out in the forest I do not
see any sense in which I can imagine the
future of this planet as one in which
human beings have no privilege when
they're compared to bears or no
privilege when they're compared to cows
or no privilege when they're compared to
pigs let alone cockroaches mosquitoes
and bedbugs that is simply crazy and
thinking of our objectives that way
thinking of our memes that way and then
offering it as a justification for the
shortcomings in our approaches when
people say well aren't you imposing your
beliefs on others I don't think it's a
meaningful or rational or fair
back to say well we're a social justice
movement and it's partly because I don't
believe that we are if you sit down and
really think in a meaningful way about
what social justice means what it means
for us and what it would mean for the
animals and apart from that it's not
really sincerely grappling with the
issue Earthling ad choses flattering
examples he says what about black rights
civil rights women's rights but what
about the history of the Catholic Church
what about the history of Islam what
about the history of forcing your
beliefs on others conversion by the
sword
what about really examining what people
mean when they talk about forcing your
beliefs on others and why it is such a
dangerous thing in human political
history whether we're talking about
communism or conservative Islam across
the board why don't we take that
seriously why don't we show us sincere
interest in examining what's wrong in
our own movements and learning from the
history of other movements instead of
dismissing it with this sort of cynical
ploy of saying well what about women's
rights what about black rights struggles
that we are ourselves I think Edie we
can say we are ourselves not experts in
that we're not sincerely examining in
terms of the very little bit that has in
common with veganism and how much they
don't have in common theism ultimately
the meditation of black people united
states relies on a civil war and nobody
in veganism is talking about how much
it's a war the differences are much more
meaningful and of a great much greater
magnitude than the similarities but a
simple subtle idea of this kind social
justice inserts itself early on into how
we think about veganism and then it
leads to conclusions that veganism is
somehow an attempt to get rid of the
distinctions of greater than and less
than that it's a mission to abolish
privilege and that human beings is
says himself Eclipse humans feel guilty
because they're in this position of
power and privilege that must end had
the power and privilege we have over
animals is never going to add and you
and I as vegans are never going to stop
eating bread and beans vegetables that
are produced if we're keeping all the
way real every day by killing animals
Gophers
groundhogs there's a huge array of
insect and mammal life that we kill
every day whether it's on a fruit farm
on a wheat farm or on a bean farm or
what have you if we really believe the
vegan movement was as you described it
an attempt to abolish the privilege the
superiority that human beings exercised
of our animals I think we would be
insane and on the contrary if we look at
it as a more responsible use of that
power of privilege of facing up to the
moral responsibility that's incumbent on
us to do the best we can with that
privilege and to stop thinking in terms
of short term self gratification or just
clinging on to really a bunch of
cultural customs that are now obsolete
then how we think about veganism how we
practice it in our own lives changes how
we present it to others changes and yeah
I think in a really meaningful sense the
future of the movement changes to the
new Yin